Now we need to actually create
the server that will be
able to grab the HTML file that we had and
interpolate it with the notes that
we are going to be passed down or
the format of notes which are divs now,
and then send that back to the client.
So let's do that.
cost createServer.
Server is gonna take some notes,
like this.
And we're just gonna return
the http.createServer, like this.
And request and response.
This is gonna be async because we need
to await reading the file, right?
But first, let's get the HTML path.
So const HTML_PATH = new
URL(), like this.
And that's within the same directory here.
So I can just say templates.html,
and then imports.meta.url,
and then .pathname.
If you're on Windows, I think pathname
breaks it, so don't use pathname.
So we got that.
And then now we're gonna get the template.
So we're gonna say await fs.read
file from the HTML path,
utf-8.
All right, so we got the template.
And the next thing we need to
do is convert that template into
the real HTML that we're gonna use,
which is interpolate the template
with this data once we format it.
So now we're gonna say const
html = interpolate this
template with this object
that has notes on it,
which is gonna be the format notes
of the notes object, like that.
Cool, I think we need to send this back.
So before we send it back, actually we
could do both of these in one, w could do
a writeHead, which means, we could do
a status and the headers at the same time.
So we'll say res.writeHead,
and status of 200, and
then Content-Type is
probably gonna be text/html,
since we're sending back HTML,
we want the browser to treat it like HTML.
And then lastly,
we just need to send back the html,
so we can just say a res.end(html).
And then we'll just create one
last function to start the server.
So we'll say start,
this also takes in notes,
probably take in a port as well,
that way we're not stuck to the same port.
And then all we're gonna do
is just create this server.
So we could say server = createServer,
give in the notes, like this.
And then we just need to do the same
thing we did before where we listen,
then we can open it, right?
So let's say server.listen on
the port that you gave us.
And then I'm actually going
to call open inside of here.
And then we'll begin to just do a log,
console.log('server').
Go ahead and make an address,
which will be http:localhost:
to whatever port you passed in,
like that, or like that.
And then server on, Address,
just so we can see it in
a terminal to make sure it's on.
Otherwise, it'll just
look like it's hanging.
We won't know what's going on.
And then I just wanna open
that address in a browser.
Last thing we gotta do in here is just
make sure we export what we wanna use in
another file.
So I'm gonna export start.
And that's the sweet thing about modules,
I don't have to export any other functions
in here if I don't want them to
be used outside of this file.
That would essentially make
these functions private,
they could never be used.
That also means they couldn't ever be tested
either because you didn't export them.
So you gotta think about that.
So, probably still a good
habit to export them just so
you can test them, but
just keep note of that.
So, okay, so now we have start,
all we wanna do here now is
go back to our command,
scroll down to our web command here
that we haven't done, and
we just want to update that.
So we already have a positional for
port, default to 5,000.
All we wanna do is just do this.
We gotta get all the notes and
we gotta pass those notes to start, and
then we just gotta pass in the port.
So let's do that.
const notes = await get,
Do we have a function for that?
Yes, right.
getAllNotes, there we go.
And then we can just say start
from server, auto import that,
I'm sure it did import it right.
It did, it did .js this time.
Why did it do it this time?
That's so weird.
I mean, I'm not complaining, but
why you didn't do that the first time,
I don't know.
argv.port, to pass in the port there.
Okay, so let's try to run this and
see what we broke.
So now we can type in note web,
and then port is optional.
I'm just not gonna do it,
and let's see what happens.
So, yeah, I already have something in use
on 5,000, I don't know where.
So I'm just gonna pick a different number.
Let's just say 4001.
Boom, so 4001 here.
And let's see,
I don't see anything on the page.
So let's see what's going on here.
Okay, so we got everything running,
but nothing's on the page,
probably because I don't have any notes.
So that would be helpful.
So let's stop this, and
let's make some notes.
So I'm gonna say notes new, clean my room,
clean my room, clean my room,
clean my room.
What else do I have?
I don't feel like typing anything.
I know I got some other stuff in here.
Here we go, I'll just do this.
Cool, okay, so
now I have some notes in here.
Now let's start it.
4003, cool, there we go.
And I'll have a website with my notes.
So then you can go here, right?
You can go into your HTML,
you can add a style tag, add some CSS,
make it look better, do whatever you want.
But basically we just server rendered
some HTML, that's what we just did.
Just so
you've ever heard of server side React.
Yeah, that's where they got this from.
We just server side rendered some stuff.
So typically you probably won't
use HTTP to create a server.
In fact you never will.
You will use something
called Express most likely,
which is way better and functional.
But I didn't want to talk about it in this
course, because then I have to come up
with a use case for using it and
it'll just be trivial.
In this case it makes sense to use this,
but
realistically you'll probably use
something called Express.js or
any other server language out there or
server framework that's out there.
But for our purpose it works, and
I really wanted you to understand how all
this is working, because underneath
Express, it's using HTTP anyway.
So it's important to me that
you understand the foundations.